#summary How to use pydelicious from the command-line using dlcs 
#labels 

= Command-Line del.icio.us =

XXX: dlcs has no installer and is not integrated into pydelicious' installer.
     replace 'dlcs' below with the path to dlcs.py.

`dlcs` is an executable script that acts as a text-user-interface [TUI] in front
of pydelicious.DeliciousAPI. It offers some facilities to get data from your 
online bookmark collection and to perfom operations. See:

    % dlcs --help

The tool enables quick access but the server communication may be slow and
when doing multiple expensive requests del.icio.us may throttle you and
return 503's. This all depends on your collection size (posts/tags/bundles)
ofcourse. In any case, the post and tag lists are stored locally and some
changes to your collection may not be noticed until you clear this cache
since posts/update does not notice any edits.

== Quickstart ==
Just start `dlcs` using:

    % dlcs -u <username>

Post any URL using:

    % dlcs postit <URL>

== Configuration ==
Your username and password can be stored in an INI formatted configuration
file under section name 'dlcs'. The default location is ~/.dlcs-rc
but this can be changed using command line options. If no username or
password are provided `dlcs` will use your login name and prompt for the
password.

== Limitation ==
- Bundle sizes are restricted by the maximum URL size [xxx:length?], the
  del.icio.us interface allows bigger bundles.

== Integration ==
When using curses based browsers you may have to miss the javascript
bookmarklets since most TUI browsers don't support these. That is why dlcs 
has a command `postit` that takes the URL and fires up your favorite editor 
to offer the same functionality. E.g., 
`dlcs postit http://code.google.com/p/pydelicious/` might present you a temporary file
with something like:

  [http://code.google.com/p/pydelicious/]
  extended =
  hash = fed81a2bedd28f104c39525760fb748e
  description = pydelicious - Google Code
  replace = Yes
  tag = pydelicious python xml api 2006 http:del.icio.us code projects tags web 2007 2008
  meta = 2c6c592bc80d78852d81c1973966b9c1
  time = 2006-10-25T00:39:11Z
  shared = Yes

To bookmark HTTP URLs with lynx, put the following line in your lynx.cfg::

    EXTERNAL:http:dlcs postit %s

For the elinks browser, create a uri_passing rule in the configuration file.
Something like the following::

    set document.uri_passing.dlcs = "bash -c \"dlcs postit %c\""


